.\" Man page for openscada
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Roman Savochenko.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" OpenSCADA distribution.
.\"
.\" Wed Jul 01 12:22:00 EEST 2015 Roman Savochenko (rom_as@oscada.org)
.\"
.TH OPENSCADA 1 "2015-07-01" "0.9 Work" "Main OpenSCADA start"
.SH NAME
openscada \- Main \fBOpenSCADA\fP start program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBopenscada\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBOpenSCADA\fP system is an open implementation of SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) and HMI (Human-Machine Interface) systems.
The main properties of the system are: openness(GPL), multiplatform, modularity and scalability.
.sp 1
Heart of the system is the modular kernel.
Depending on what modules are connected, the system can carry out both functions of various servers,
and functions of clients of client-server architecture.
Actually, the architecture of system allows you to realize the distributed client-server systems of any complexity and mixing.
For achievement of high speed due to reduction of communications time, the architecture allows to unite functions of the distributed systems
into one program.
.sp 1
The program \fBopenscada\fP is main starter and it allows you to start \fBOpenSCADA\fP into need configuration (default into file \fI/etc/oscada.xml\fP)
whether into full-featured SCADA or PLC and demon mode. For flexible control use the projects oriented wrapper \fBopenscada_start\fP.
.sp 1
For access to default configurations use account "root" and password "openscada" or account "user" and password "user".
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
.SS Generic options:
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Info message about the system \fBOpenSCADA\fP options.
.TP
.BI \-\-config= file
The station configuration \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-station= id
The station \fIidentifier\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-statName= name
The station \fIname\fP.
.TP
.BR \-\-demon ", " \-\-daemon
Start into the daemon mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-pidFile= file
The \fIfile\fP for the programm process ID place here.
.TP
.BI \-\-coreDumpAllow
Set limits for a core dump creation allow on the crash.
.TP
.BI --modPath= path
Modules \fIpath\fP (/var/os/modules/).
.TP
.BI \-\-messLev= level
Process messages \fIlevel\fP (0-7).
.TP
.BI \-\-log= direct
Direct messages to, by bitfield:
.RS 11
0x1 \- syslogd;
.br
0x2 \- stdout;
.br
0x4 \- stderr;
.br
0x8 \- the messages archive.
.br

.SS The module <Archive:FSArch> options:
.TP
.BI \-\-noArchLimit
Disable archives limit to the file number. Use for see archives mode, not work.

.SS The module <UI:QTStarter> options:
.TP
.BI \-\-sync
Switches to synchronous mode X11 for debugging.
.TP
.BI \-\-widgetcount
Prints debug message at the end about number of widgets left undestroyed and maximum number of widgets existed at the same time.
.TP
.BI \-\-qws
With Qt for Embedded Linux makes this application the server.
.TP
.BI \-\-style= nm
Sets GUI style to \fInm\fP (windows, platinum, plastique, ...).
.TP
.BI \-\-stylesheet= path
Sets styleSheet by \fIpath\fP to file that contains.
.TP
.BI \-\-session= nm
Restores from an earlier session \fInm\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-reverse
Sets layout direction to Qt::RightToLeft.
.TP
.BI \-\-graphicssystem= nm
Sets the backend to be used for on-screen widgets and QPixmaps (raster, opengl).
.TP
.BI \-\-display= nm
Sets the X display \fIname\fP (default it is $DISPLAY).
.TP
.BI \-\-geometry= geom
Sets the client \fIgeometry\fP of the first window that is shown.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/oscada.xml
\fBOpenSCADA\fP default configuration file
.TP
.I /usr/share/openscada/
Global data files directory of \fBOpenSCADA\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openscada_start (1),
.TP
.B http://oscada.org
\fBOpenSCADA\fP project's main site
.TP
.B http://wiki.oscada.org
WIKI\-resource with all the documentation source
.sp 1
Full user documentation is available through the GUI configuration module like \fBQTCfg\fP.
.br

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Roman Savochenko <rom_as@oscada.org>
