.\" Man page for openscada_start
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Roman Savochenko.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" OpenSCADA distribution.
.\"
.\" Wed Jul 01 12:22:00 EEST 2015 Roman Savochenko (rom_as@oscada.org)
.\"
.TH OPENSCADA 1 "2015-07-01" "0.9 Work" "Projects oriented OpenSCADA start"
.SH NAME
openscada_start \- Projects oriented \fBOpenSCADA\fP start script
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBopenscada_start\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBOpenSCADA\fP system is an open implementation of SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) and HMI (Human-Machine Interface) systems.
The main properties of the system are: openness(GPL), multiplatform, modularity and scalability.
.sp 1
Heart of the system is the modular kernel.
Depending on what modules are connected, the system can carry out both functions of various servers,
and functions of clients of client-server architecture.
Actually, the architecture of system allows you to realize the distributed client-server systems of any complexity and mixing.
For achievement of high speed due to reduction of communications time, the architecture allows to unite functions of the distributed systems
into one program.
.sp 1
The script \fBopenscada_start\fP is projects oriented wrapper to the main starter program \fBopenscada\fP which allows creation new projects and
independent start its. Also the script perform tracing, processing and generation crash reports, if allowed \fBgdb\fP.
.sp 1
The project of \fBOpenSCADA\fP is directory named to the project name and placed to the \fBOpenSCADA\fP data directory \fI/usr/share/openscada/\fP,
for preinstalled projects, and \fI~/.openscada/\fP for user-space projects.
.sp 1
The project name \fBProjName\fP can be passed into environment "\fBOSCADA_ProjName=ProjName\fP" or by symbol link name "\fIopenscada_\fP\fBProjName\fP"
to the script.
.sp 1
Call the script without a project name \fBProjName\fP set will cause a dialog for select a new project creation or execute preinstalled and user-space projects.
Execution a preinstalled project from the user space will cause the project's config file \fI/etc/oscada_\fP\fBProjName\fP\fI.xml\fP and directory copy
to \fBOpenSCADA\fP user-space data directory \fI~/.openscada/\fP, for the user allow to modify the project.
.sp 1
For selection and new project name dialogs building supported the dialog programs, into the priority checking:
\fBdialog\fP (for active terminal present), \fBkdialog\fP, \fBzenity\fP and \fBXdialog\fP.
.sp 1
For access to a new project (default configurations) use account "root" and password "openscada" or account "user" and password "user".
.sp 1
The script pass all options to \fBopenscada\fP but some it uses for the projects enviroment prepare!

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
.SS Generic options:
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Info message about the system \fBOpenSCADA\fP options.
.TP
.BI \-\-config= file
The station configuration \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-station= id
The station \fIidentifier\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-statName= name
The station \fIname\fP.
.TP
.BR \-\-demon ", " \-\-daemon
Start into the daemon mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-pidFile= file
The file for the programm process ID place here.
.TP
.BI \-\-coreDumpAllow
Set limits for a core dump creation allow on the crash.
.TP
.BI --modPath= path
Modules \fIpath\fP (/var/os/modules/).
.TP
.BI \-\-messLev= level
Process messages \fIlevel\fP (0-7).
.TP
.BI \-\-log= direct
Direct messages to, by bitfield:
.RS 11
0x1 \- syslogd;
.br
0x2 \- stdout;
.br
0x4 \- stderr;
.br
0x8 \- the messages archive.
.br

.SS The module <Archive:FSArch> options:
.TP
.BI \-\-noArchLimit
Disable archives limit to the file number. Use for see archives mode, not work.

.SS The module <UI:QTStarter> options:
.TP
.BI \-\-sync
Switches to synchronous mode X11 for debugging.
.TP
.BI \-\-widgetcount
Prints debug message at the end about number of widgets left undestroyed and maximum number of widgets existed at the same time.
.TP
.BI \-\-qws
With Qt for Embedded Linux makes this application the server.
.TP
.BI \-\-style= nm
Sets GUI style to \fInm\fP (windows, platinum, plastique, ...).
.TP
.BI \-\-stylesheet= path
Sets styleSheet by \fIpath\fP to file that contains.
.TP
.BI \-\-session= nm
Restores from an earlier session \fInm\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-reverse
Sets layout direction to Qt::RightToLeft.
.TP
.BI \-\-graphicssystem= nm
Sets the backend to be used for on-screen widgets and QPixmaps (raster, opengl).
.TP
.BI \-\-display= nm
Sets the X display \fIname\fP (default it is $DISPLAY).
.TP
.BI \-\-geometry= geom
Sets the client \fIgeometry\fP of the first window that is shown.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OSCADA_ProjName
Set \fBOSCADA_ProjName\fP environment to an executed project's name.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/oscada.xml
\fBOpenSCADA\fP default configuration file
.TP
.I /usr/share/openscada/
Global data files and preinstaled projects directory of \fBOpenSCADA\fP
.TP
.I ~/.openscada/
User-space projects directory of \fBOpenSCADA\fP
.TP
.I /etc/oscada_\fBProjName\fP.xml
The preinstalled project \fBProjName\fP configuration file
.TP
.I \fBProjName\fP/oscada.xml
The project \fBProjName\fP configuration file
.TP
.I \fBProjName\fP/*.db
The project \fBProjName\fP SQLite DB local files
.TP
.I \fBProjName\fP/*.crash
The project \fBProjName\fP crash reports
.TP
.I \fBProjName\fP/icons/*
The project \fBProjName\fP specific media files
.TP
.I \fBProjName\fP/docs/*
The project \fBProjName\fP specific documentation files

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openscada (1),
.BR dialog (1),
.BR kdialog (1),
.BR zenity (1)
.TP
.B http://oscada.org
\fBOpenSCADA\fP project's main site
.TP
.B http://wiki.oscada.org
WIKI -resource with all the documentation source
.sp 1
Full user documentation is available through the GUI configuration module like \fBQTCfg\fP
.br
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Roman Savochenko <rom_as@oscada.org>
